# FoodTruck Application 

# Description

The purpose of this project is to read up to five reviews taken in from a user about food trucks they have visited. The information taken in from the user is the food trucks name, the type of food that is served and a numeric rating  of the truck between one and five. However, the ID of the food truck is automatically assigned and incremented from a constructor in the Foodtruck object class using a static variable. The name, type and rating are taken in using a scanner and a new object is created and stored in the array fleet as each set of information is input. An important part of this project is that the user does not need to input five food trucks if they choose not to, and they should be able to exit the input sequence after they are dont inputting. This was accomplished through an if statement allowing the user to input “quit” when prompted to enter the name of a food truck. 

The inputting and storing is done through a for loop in the method createTrucks. This method calls on getters and setters from the object class using an invoking object, and stores them in the index of the array that currently is being iterated through the loop. The input and reading of the data uses a standard scanner aside from the while loop that ensures the user inputs a numeric rating from one to five. Finally, the variable totalFootrucks is initilized. Inside the for loop the variable is assigned to the variable i, the index of the for loop, allowing it to be set to the same number of indexes in the array. I then add one to it. This static variable is imperative to the next method of the project because it will be used in the relational expression of each of the next for loops. 

In the next method, selectFromMenu, the user is presented with a menu and asked to select, using an integer input, whether they would like to see a list all the trucks they entered, see the average rating of all their numeric ratings, show their highest rated truck, or quit. This method begins with a do-while loop with the variable stillUsingMenu set to true. All of the trucks are printed using a for loop with a nested if statement. Although the if statement is not necessary, considering the totalFoodtrucks will cut the for loop once the indexes have  been expended, it is a good precaution as to not print null for indexes of the array that do not have information in them. The average numeric rating begins by declaring and initializing the double variable sum which will be used to add all of the numeric ratings, and will later be divided by totalFoodtrucks to find the average. Printing the highest numeric rating is achieved by initializing the integer max to the first index in the array. As well as, setting the int lastIndx to zero. This variable will be used to pull the scope of the variable i in the subsequent for loop and will be used to print the highest rated food truck outside of that for loop. Inside the for loop, each index of the array is compared to the max variable. If the numeric rating of max is higher than the index being compared, the loop will cycle through again. If it is lower, that index is assigned to max. Once the last index is run through the loop, the variable lastIndx is set to the variable i in the for loop. Allowing printing of all the information stored in that index of the array. Finally, the fourth method is a quit method that sets the earlier mentioned variable stillUsingMenu to false when the user inputs four. This ends the loop and terminates the program.

# Technologies Used

Java and Eclipse.

# Lessons Learned

The major lessons I learned during this project revolved around object orientation. One major point was the creation of objects through an array and what will cause a null pointer exception to occur. Another aspect of objects that I now have more experience with is establishing getters and setters and calling on those methods to send information to the application. This also increased my knowledge of static and non-static methods and having to use objects to call the methods from the same object class.  

Another area I learned quite a bit about was public, private and static variables. Private state variables are necessary for encapsulation of data, while static variables make it possible to use that specific variable throughout the entire class without having to declare and initialize once the scope ends. 
